---
description: Eight step process.
---

# Design

<table><thead><tr><th width="64">#</th><th width="136">Name</th><th>Summary</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td><strong>Identity</strong></td><td><ul><li>Foundation for trust</li></ul><ul><li>Unique ID for all entities, organic (human) and inorganic (documents, intelligence agents etc)</li><li>entityOS.cloud as issuer of unique id for all entities, including cryptographic keys.</li></ul><ul><li>Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI) compatible.</li></ul><ul><li>Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI) Decentralised IDs (DIDs) issued based on cryptographic keys (ed22519).</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td><strong>Trust</strong></td><td><ul><li>Issued as SSI Verifiable Credentials (VCs).</li></ul><ul><li>Private information to be encrypted using cryptographic keys of identities that the data relates to and stored.</li></ul><ul><li>Public information, including proofs of private data to be stored on-chain on the Cardano network.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td><strong>Information integrity, confidentiality &#x26; availability</strong></td><td><ul><li>For entities/identities sharing risks</li></ul><ul><li>Validity of external events information that is used as basis for trust and information / value exchanges - eg geo data</li><li>Private information to be encrypted using cryptographic keys of identities that the data relates to and stored.</li></ul><ul><li>Public information, including proofs of private data to be stored on-chain on the Cardano network.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td><strong>Information / value exchange</strong></td><td><ul><li>Direct - fast and frictionless</li></ul><ul><li>Value information (e.g. payments) between identities to be completed using cryptographic keys using the Cardano network.</li><li>Informal chat with agents, organic (human) and/or inorganic (AI) to be via AT Protocol using SSI DIDs and personal data store.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td><strong>Intuitive/valid interfaces</strong></td><td><ul><li>Human UX / UI is reactive, reflective, dynamic, generative, realtime.</li></ul><ul><li>UI driven by definitions (templates) - generated by design or real-time interactions/events.</li><li>AI interfaces using model-context-protocol (MCP) &#x26; A2A.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td><strong>Incentives are aligned/valid</strong></td><td><ul><li>Incentives designed to enable ecosystem self-energising.</li></ul><ul><li>Tokens to be stored cryptographically using Cardano network as fungible and non-fungabile tokens using Cardano network policy definitions.</li><li>Tokenomics to reward value created by entities/identities within the ecosystem.  E.g. insureds for self-driving their activities, risk insurance providers, service providers</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>I<strong>ntelligence is maximised</strong></td><td><ul><li>Use of inorganic intelligence (AI) to analysis data for risk exposure, patterns at ecosystem level etc</li></ul><ul><li>Inorganic intelligence integration via selfdriven.ai services.</li><li>Summarised data available as Model-Context-Protocol resource to enable AI Agent based analysis.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td><strong>Reflective</strong></td><td><ul><li>Systems can self-improve via human experience feedback and inorganic intelligence (AI) based analysis.</li></ul><ul><li>The system will include a governance framework,</li><li>Governance framework will be linked to incentives system - the more energy (active/passive) committed to the ecosystem (represented by tokens), the more influence in governance decisions/actions.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
